Knowledge Base

To do list:
Array
Linked list
Hash
Binary tree and other tree
tries
...


Array:
Stores data elements based on an sequential, most commonly
0 based, index.
Based on tuples from set theory.
Optimal for indexing;bad at searching, inserting and deleting.
Linear arrays, or one dimensional arrays are the most basic.
Are static in size meaning that they are declared with fixed 
size.
Dynamic arrays are like one dimensional arrays but have 
reserved space for additional elements.
If a dynamic array is full, it copies its contents to a larger
array.
N dimensional array.

Linked List:
Store data with nodes that point to other nodes.
Node is the basic element of linked list data structure.
Doubly linked list
Circularly linked list

Stack

Queues

Hash Table and Hash Map
Stores data with key values pairs.
Hash functions accept a key and return an output unique only to that
Specific key.
This is known as hashing, which is the concept that an input and an output
Have a one-to-one correspondent to map information.
Hash function return a unique address I memory for that data.

What you should know:
Designed to optimize searching, insertion and deletion.
Hash collisions are when a hash function returns the same output for
different input.
All hash function have such problem.
This is often accommodated for by having the hash tables be very large.

Hashes are important for associative arrays and database indexing.

Binary tree, what you should know:
Designed to optimize searching and sorting.
A degenerate tree is an unbalanced tree, which if entire one-sided is
Essentially a linked list.

They are comparably simple to implement than other data structure.
Used to make binary search trees.
A binary tree that uses comparable keys to assign which direction a child
is.
Left child has a key smaller than its parent node.
Right child has a key greater than its parent node.
There can be no duplicate node.
Because of the above, it is more likely to used as a data structure
than a binary tree.
Search Basics
An algorithm that searches a tree(or graph) by searching levels of the
tree, first starting at the root.
It finds every node on the same level, most often moving left or right.
While doing this it tracks the children nodes of the nodes on the current
level.
When finished examining a level it moves to the left most mode on the next
level.
The bottom-right most node most node is evaluated last
What you need to know:
Optimal for searching a tree that is wider than its deep.
Uses a queue to store information about the tree while it traverses a tree.
Because it uses a queue it is more memory intensive than DFS.
The queue uses more memory because it needs to stores nodes.
DFS:
An algorithm that searches a graph by searching depth first, starting at root.
It traverses left down a tree until it cannot go furture.
Once it reaches the end of a branch it traverses back up trying the right
of the root then go left on all nodes until bottom.
The right most node is evaluated last.
What you should know:
Optimal for searching a tree that is deeper than its wide.
Uses a stack to push nodes onto.
    Because a stack is LIFO, it does not need to keep track of the nodes pointers and is less memory
    intensive than breadithfirst search.
    Once it cannot go further left it.
    Big O efficiency:
    Search: DFS O(E+V)
    E is number of edges
    V is number of vertices
    BFS VS DFS
    For wide, shallow trees use BFS
    For deep. narrow trees use DFS
    Nuances:
    Because BFS uses queuee to store information about the nodes and its children, it could
    use more memory.
    If DFS on a treethat is very deep you might go unecessaryily deep in the search.
    BFS tends to be a looping algorithm
    DFS tends to be a recursive algorithm

    
A static method belongs to the class rather than the object of a class.
A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class
A static method can access static data member and can change the value of it.






Q) Why is the Java main method static?
Ans) It is because the object is not required to call a static method. If it were a non-static method, JVM creates an object first then call main() method that will lead the problem of extra memory allocation.

In Java, what methods can be called without an object reference?
Static method.

KB in java:
1. StringBuilder:
    Represents a mutable sequence of characters.
    String Class in Java is immutable sequence of chars, but StringBuilder is not.

    StringBuilder vs StringBuffer
    synchronization
    And we dont care for now...
    
2. Override:
    Overriding is feature that allows a subclass or child class to provide a specific
    implementation of a method that is already provide by on of its super-class or parent
    class.

    Constructor overriding:
    Construcor Overriding is never possible in java. This is because, Constructor looks like
    a method but name should be as class name and no return value.
    Overriding means what we have declared in Super class, that exactly we have to declare
    in Sub class it is called Overriding.

3, Override vs Overload
    Overloading occurs 
    when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters. 
    Overriding means having two methods with the same method name and parameters (i.e., method signature). 
    One of the methods is in the parent class and the other is in the child class.

Docker:

What is Docker?
Develop apps, ship them into containers which can then be deployed anywhere.

Docker container:
A docker container is an open source software development platform.

Images:
An images is a combination of a file system and parameters.

An instance of an image is a container.

Palindrome problem in interview question.








